All right.
So what is the next thing that we want to build out?
Well, we want the user to be able to click the action button and have that render our profile image.
And the way that we can make that happen, of course, is if the click of the action button changes,
the value of the is logged in property.
If we can get the user to click the action button and switch this value to true, that will force view
to re render our component which will in turn render the profile image because now the v f will be attached
to a boolean of true right.
But how can we get the user action to trigger some kind of code to run or some kind of procedure to
execute?
Well, when you hear the words procedure, hopefully the idea that comes to mind is a function or a
method, right?
A bundle of code, a bunch of steps to run through.
And a function or a method, of course, encapsulates that collection of steps.
Well, as it turns out, we can attach methods to our view instances.
So let's try that out.
In this lesson, I'm going to open up my action button component right here.
I'm going to use command P to bring up my command palette that should be control piano, windows, computer,
and I'm going to search for my action button file.
And right here at the very bottom we have our view configuration object and an additional property that
we can add here is methods.
So once again, this name of methods is not up to us.
It is a view requirement.
This is how we attach methods to a view component.
All right.
So I'm going to provide my value here.
And the value is going to be a plain JavaScript object right here, curly braces.
All right.
So we can define our methods in here.
And an important note here is that we have to define them as s six methods rather than arrow functions.
So what I mean by that is let me just write out a sample one here.
So we'll see the differences.
We're going to right handle click.
This is going to be an arbitrary method name.
We can call this whatever we want, but I'm going to call this handle click because it's what it's going
to do.
It's going to react to a user clicking this action button and I'm going to use this syntax.
All right.
This is the traditional E-6 method syntax.
So in other words, we cannot do an arrow function like this, all right.
Because that prevents Vue from correctly binding everything it needs for this component total to to
function.
So without getting too much as the technical details do not use arrow functions here in this object
only use ES6 method definitions, which is just the name of the method followed by a pair of parentheses
where you put your parameters and then the function body inside curly braces.
All right, so what I want to do here is do something very simple in this method body.
I'm just going to console.log some kind of text to my browser console.
So I'm going to console.log a string of I've been clicked because obviously what we want to happen is
for this text to appear whenever the user clicks the button.
All right.
So let's go to the browser and see what is going to go on.
Right now.
I'm going to transition back to Chrome.
Here is my app and to bring up my console and what's going to happen when we click the button is absolutely
nothing.
Watch.
So I'm going to click this button.
Nothing is happening as I click.
All right.
So why is this happening?
Well, just because we've defined a method on a component, just because we've defined a procedure or
a collection of steps for you to execute doesn't mean that we've told you when to execute this method.
Right?
How is Vue supposed to know when it's supposed to run handle quick.
How is you supposed to know how many times to handle click?
Right.
Well, we have to trigger this method to run.
Just like when we write a basic JavaScript method, we have to invoke it right with parentheses or call
it as another term you might hear.
Well, we similarly have to tell you when to actually run this method.
The method will define the logic of something or how to do something.
And later on we'll see how we can use this method to indeed change the object's data.
But before we get there, we have to figure out how to actually tell you to run a method that's available,
and we're going to see how to do that in the very next lesson.